---
title: "extend"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: plug
---

## Extending

The idea behind Modli was to remove the repetitive components from
data modeling and CRUD operation, but in development there is no such
thing as "one size fits all".

As such, Modli (and its adapters) are built to be easily extensible.

### Plugins

Modli supports easy addition of custom functionality through plugins. Using the
`myDataSource` instance created in the above section a plugin can be added to 
extend the Modli instance:

{% highlight javascript linenos=table %}
// Create a plugin function
const getSchemas = function () {
  return this.schemas;
}

// Use the `plugin` method to add the plugin
myDataSource.plugin(getSchemas);

// Call the plugin
const schemas = myDataSource.getSchemas(); // <- would return all schemas in user
{% endhighlight %}

### Extending the Model

Models require 3 properties: `name`, `version` and `schema`. Beyond that
there are no restrictions.

{% highlight javascript linenos=table %}
// Add a custom property
model.add({
  name: 'testModel',
  version: 1,
  schema: { /* ... */ },
  foo: 'bar'
});
{% endhighlight %}

Now, anywhere the `testModel` is used (even in the adapter) the property
`foo` will be available.

Some adapters even require this, for example the [MySQL Adapter](https://github.com/node-modli/modli-mysql)
needs the property `tableName`.

### Extending the Adapter

All adapters include an `extend` method. This allows for easily extending
custom methods:

{% highlight javascript linenos=table %}
import nedb from 'modli-nedb';

nedb.extend('myCustomFn', () => {
  return 'something';
});
{% endhighlight %}

Now when `use`'d with a model the `myCustomFn` method will be available.

### Extending As Needed

Not only does the adapter `extend` method allow for creating custom methods
at the adapter level, but even after a datasource object has been generated,
extend allows adding methods specific to that model + adapter combination.

{% highlight javascript linenos=table %}
// Imports
import { model, adapter, use, Joi } from 'modli';
import nedb from 'modli-nedb';

// Add the adapter and model
adapter.add({ name: 'testNeDB', /* ... */ });
model.add({ name: 'testModel', /* ... */ });

// Use the model + adapter combo
const myDatasource = use('testModel', 'testNeDB');

// Extend the datasource
myDatasource.extend('myCustomFn', () => {
  /* ... */
});
{% endhighlight %}


